All right, let me share my scoring.
OK.
In case you guys are using large lankare
model in your.
Final projects I just wanna show you guys.
How do you actually call the?
Large language model.
For example open AI API.
Have you guys connect to open a IAPI
before and then you do you know how to
connect to the chat GPI?
I have not.
OK.
So just so you can.
I do not, but it sounds cool.
OK.
So just in case you guys need to use.
API is in your final project, right?
So then let me show you how to do it.
So you go to open open AI.
Right.
So that you need to log in and you click
this API platform.
So you can just continue with Google.
I'm just going to use my own account,
my personal account.
So then once you log in.
So then open AI provide quite detailed.
Introduction how how you guys are using
API so then they give you different
models, right?
So then you have a four point 103 mini 01.
So then before you decide what model to
use.
Make sure you check pricing.
OK.
So for example, like you,
you can see this GPT 41 and based upon 1,
000,000 token.
So this input is 2 point. This is $2.00.
And output is $8,
so then that means like you ask the
question to charge Apte and charge APD
return an answer to you.
They gonna charge you $2 per 1,000,
000 token you sent to ChatGPT.
And they gonna charge you $8 when they
send when ChatGPT or open.
I sent you the answer.
So in total it's $10, right?
So that you can check batch API price.
You can do this.
It's $5. They gave you 50% discount.
But you know, if you, you,
you you're not using batch you have to
pay $10.
So that's why.
Gpt 4.1.
Is quite expensive model.
Unless you're just basically using,
you send a a pile of pictures to to
ChatGPT to open the I API. Do not use 4.
1 you you it gonna cost you a lot of
money.
A ton of money if if your goal is to
analyze, for example,
10K10Q those kind of reports easily,
you can send 1,000,
000 tokens to to ChatGPT. OK.
So the model I will recommend.
Is you can definitely use a 4.1 mini.
As you can see it is only $2.
00 point 4 for input and 1.6 for output.
OK,
so also you can just basically use a 4.1.
Also really $0.50 the model I usually use.
Is a four oh, mini. So that's that's all.
Be good enough model for anyone to use
honestly.
And it only cost you 75 cents, $1 million,
one million tokens sent to open AI.
And receiving answer from open AI OK.
Do not use 4.
5 preview and do not use 01 Pro because
it's just so costly not worth it.
OK.
So then in a real time preview and audio
preview,
unless you were just building some really
fancy app.
But don't use it in this class.
It is just so expensive.
You use 40 mini like pretty much gonna
give you the same output based upon the
data that we use in this class.
As you know, even 4.1 million or 4.
1 is a good enough model, right?
So that as you can see there always give
you like GPT 40 mini 2020, four 07/18.
So this is this is actually the model ID
we will be using in the in the Python
code, OK.
So then if you just type in GPT.
Dash 40 dash mini it won't able to tell
what kind of model you are.
Actually using so that you have to
provide these timestamp this 2020 4/07/18
or 20250414 is the latest model or
20250414 those kind of models, right?
So then you can definitely track those
core concepts here, for example text.
So it just directly give you.
For example,
there is a JavaScript and then since we
are coding in Python,
you can click the JavaScript.
And then click Python.
So this gonna give you the latest
greatest.
API.
Code that you can use your local machine
connect to the API or you can use a
collab. Contact with API.
Or you can use.
A GitHub code space to connect to the
APIs.
So this is the easiest way to do that.
Right, so use a Python, right?
So this is the this is the code we can do
something you need to do before is in
your profile now here.
If you click your profile right so then
you need to generate your own API keys.
So I do have one for this class,
so this is going to be the secret key.
I will show you.
But you know after this cloud,
I'm going to delete it so that.
You know you're not allow other people to
use your own.
Your own API, right?
So then when you do have your API here is,
here's a usage.
Uh, portal.
You can actually check how much money you
actually spend on on ChatGPT.
So then you can give them.
A monthly budget.
For ChatGPT to track your your usage of
the tokens, which is the money, right?
So then as you can see, I test the call,
then I I spend less than one cent today I
I did two requests a day based upon my
new my new.
API key right?
So then you can definitely see the
historical.
Historical usage I believe if I do this I
can definitely see some usage from open
AI. As you can see I use.
On this day I use a total like 50,
000 tokens over there so.
So this is how you track.
So just put $20 here.
If it hits upper bound it gonna send you
alarm.
You know,
at at Brady we we do see some folks
mistakenly spend like thousands of
dollars by using the API.
So Haroon any question?
So since we're doing this similar thing
for our graduate homework as well.
Yep.
We also use the mini model for the
homework and how much?
It should be, yeah, it should be OK.
It should be OK so then and also as you
can see the model right now accept like 1,
000,000 tokens.
It's good enough for for for that 10K.
Thank you analysis.
Alright, how much would it do?
You have an approximate budget that we
Yeah.
should assign.
Is it gonna cost like 5-10 dollars to
complete the entire?
I.
I don't.
I don't expect you spend any any dollar
more than five.
I mean,
likely you're just like one or two.
OK.
Thank you.
Yeah, you you should.
I mean, it's thinking this way, right?
So then if you go to API reference,
if you see the price.
You see the price if you use like 40 mini
so 1,000,000 token in and out it's really.
Really,
like even using these numbers is like 1.
5 dollars 1,000,000 token,
so you can multiply .
75 into the English words.
So that's really 750,
000 words then that's a lot.
That's a lot.
So then.
So that's why I do not expect you guys to
spend like more than $5 one or two likely
going to be the case.
And if you manage to clean the data well.
So I don't think you even spend like more
than $1.00 like the example I show you.
I send 50,
000 tokens to open AI only cost me less
than one cent,
so that's pretty much going to be the
money you spend on this.
But you do have to provide.
You do have to provide some, you know,
credit card for, for chargeback,
for open I to track to, to, to charge.
But just delete that credit card from the
opening I that would be the best way to
manage your privacy. Your,
your your account. Right. So so here.
Is the code right?
So then you just call from open AI import
open AI, OK.
So then just for your own homework,
you can just provide.
It once you finish this notebook,
you can just delete it.
You can just delete it.
This API key you don't have don't show me
or anyone your API key.
I know this class is recorded so then I/O
delete the API key.
So then this API key won't be stolen,
right?
So then you have to create one thing here.
Is called, it's called client.
Client is one definition of this API.
So you're just using these clients to
come back to open AI, right?
So then you have to provide this model.
Remember,
I told you you are going to provide a
model ID.
Which is let me just show you again.
Which is going to be this kind of ID
under each main model,
so they open AI will keep changing their
model ID.
So then the the ID you see today won't be
the one you see.
Maybe in one week.
So then they they kept updating those
model IDs,
the one I chose to use is this one,
the GPT 40 mini 2020 4/07/18.
It's a really cheap one.
I.
I believe we can just handle all the work.
You know, tax summarization kind of work.
I sent to ChatGPT open AI.
So that's why I use that.
So then this is the value you can change.
Based upon your preference,
but you know if you choose some really
expensive model,
the input output will charge you a lot of
money.
Then this kind of a mini model that is
really powerful and can can do the work
for you. OK.
So then the input.
What is this?
Input this input is really like this,
just like can you write.
Explain.
What is an?
API.
Right. Yeah. So,
so basically you send a question here so
that this ChatGPT gonna return your
answer.
Like this?
So then if you copy this question to this
Python code.
Right. So.
This is the this is your input.
Can you explain what what an API is?
Right.
So that you gonna you gonna define this
response as you send this input to this
model.
Through this client and this gonna create
some response from.
This model and saved in the open AI
server and I'll show you right so that
you send images code comment is just
sending out.
OK.
You could just take some time to send
this input and receive output from open
AI just like this.
OK.
So now you can just check what this
response actually look like.
So this go to be the look like so then
you gonna give you ID.
So this ID is when open and I received
your input,
you're gonna generate the ID and create
it at whatever location,
and then you're gonna give a lot of
information.
Right. So then.
Copy this.
I'm just showing you the note.
Right.
So this kind of the output from open AI
as a raw output so that I I I understand
right so that this is not this is too
much information but as you can see this
content and the text is something that
you we gonna see.
In the UI is like.
Sure an API where application programming
interface is set of rules and protocols
that allows different software
application blah blah blah.
So this is a really the output you
usually see from the UI,
but you do not want to show your user or
or your homework that entire this kind of
response.
Raw output. What you need to do is.
You just need to.
You just need to show this response
output tag.
So you can just define this response
output passed as output,
show this and if I print it can check
your output.
OK.
So this is going to be the one you
actually see from the UI,
but in this way just show you in in sort
of like coding kind of style so that you
you,
you you sort of can get rid of any UI
that open I provides and then.
This is going to be a really fancy way
and then it's going to be a function
embedded in your product in your app.
So I'm working in that way. OK.
So this is really the easiest way to call
API to do your analysis,
either for the final project or for the
graduate level homework.
I'll upload this code to D2L so you can
take a look.
You can decide.
You can just at least give a shot and
then try it, right?
So this is a lot of fun to to call your
open API.
It's it's definitely different experience.
And then if you do need these API.
According API in your project any project
and then you know the way how to do it.
OK.
And and that's just wanted to give you
guys one example.
And if you if you really want to call,
for example anthropic or or Gemini models,
they follow similar ways but not
necessary the same way.
So you need to find you know the Google
or anthropic their their technical API
documents.
To find out a better way to call their
API,
if you choose to use open AI and this is
the way and open line does offer really
detailed document of how do you build a
text on proming.
So then make sure you choose Python right?
So then there's a lot of information they
provide in here and then you can just
directly follow.
Their.
Their their explanation or find trying to
follow their example prompt to do this
work.
And you can, if you do have some time,
you can you can.
You can also try the images of vision,
those kind of different uh functions that
uh, open eye offers and streaming.
This is really like you just stream
equals to true.
So what does it work?
So if you choose like stream equal true,
what it shows is really like.
For example in the UI.
In the UI it won't show you the entire
output. It show you kind of a stream.
So it's like this.
So this kind of effort,
if you if you change this argument stream
equal to true,
this is something that you can achieve on
your own in in your own codes. OK.
Any question about calling Open Air API?
All right.
No question which is awesome.
So then today,
I think we finally just moved to this
open AI.
Sorry, large language models, right?
So then let's talk about that.
So we will spend the rest of the hour
talking about the large Roku models and
then mainly what we are going to talk
about is this article.
It's called attention is all you need,
so I will highly recommend you guys to
read this article.
On your own, you know this.
This one perhaps going to be the most
important article in in this century,
maybe.
Just this article, right?
So that this one has been written by
those kind of folks,
they used to work for Google at the time
and then after they sort of publish this
article, they all laughed at Google.
They all went somewhere,
start their own company.
They became very successful millionaires,
but it's it's it's definitely true that
they,
they they definitely love to Google after
that after publishing this,
this this article and this article turns
to be really fundamental article for all
the models you're seeing right now and
call themselves like.
The AI models this.
Everything is based upon these very
articles.
And this going to be our fundamental
content for today's slides. OK.
So.
Let me just present it in teams,
so then you can just focus on,
we can just focus on the slides.
Nice. OK, present.
OK.
So this all about this article.
So this article is actually oh,
by the way, can you see my screen?
Yep.
Yeah. OK.
Yep.
So what we are going to talk about is
this complex chart to the right, right,
so that it has two pieces,
one piece highlight in this slide I
highlight in in sort of like light blue
that's called encoder.
The another piece I highlight in blue in
this slide is called decoder.
So it's a typical encoder decoder.
Typical decoder decoder structure.
But you know, with that being said,
it's a really classical encoder decoder
structure.
The reason of that structure is to solve
is to solve the translation problem.
I have English sentence.
I want to translate into Spanish or
French or other languages.
I have to use encoder decoder structure
in this. Attention is all you need.
Article this is really classic.
Model. However, as you may know,
or you may not know, open AI.
The open AI model is a decoder decoder
only model.
In the open,
AI does not even have the encoder piece,
but in this class I just want you guys to
understand entire classic structure of
all the AI models right now.
So that's why I'm still going through the
encoder and decoder.
The encoder 1st and decoder later.
But just so you aware,
this structure was originally designed
for translation and open AI does not even
have the encoder.
Some of the models decide to choose only
decoder and some the model decides to
choose encoder and decoder, so hopefully.
After this class you sort of understand
this kind of this classic AI structure
and then you know the pros and cons of it
and you know, eventually can explain why.
Open AI or any large language model so
bad at mathematics or arithmetics.
So then hopefully you you can explain
that, OK.
So that's that's the goal of of today's
class.
OK.
So first one,
let's just going through the very first
step.
It's called input embedding.
It's very first step.
So we have input just thinking this way.
I'm for the entire class I'm going to use
this. The cat sat on a mat.
Kind of example sentence, right?
So then we're gonna explain this.
We're gonna explain attention.
We're gonna explain a lot of things,
right.
The first thing is the cat sat on that.
This is an English sentence.
However, unfortunately,
the machine the computer does not
understand English, right?
So that the machine only understand the
numbers or type,
typically 01 numbers and then eventually
we generate it to flow numbers.
But it's OK, but only understand numbers.
We need to convert.
Those word English words, French words.
German words Chinese correctors.
Japanese correctors into numbers,
and that is called input embedding.
Input embedding.
What does that mean?
Is it just convert word to numbers?
You have the word hello.
You have another word world through this
model gonna return 2 numbers.
Why is this number 3.
242 a number number is another number 1.
242. OK,
so this is really typically high level
converting virtual numbers and then what
do you think is a good embedding model?
And how does it look like?
What?
What's your definition of a good
embedding model?
Any thought?
Or if I give you a random embedding model,
why do you call?
Why do you think this is good?
Or why do you think this is not good?
OK.
I I will give you some examples and then
you can tell me whether or not this is
good. OK.
So the first one is I have English words.
I have hello world.
I can give hello like this one 3.
242 in the world 1.
2422 different #2 random numbers.
Why do you think?
Do you think this is a good model?
And why do you think this is a good model?
By the way.
Any any of you believe this is a good
embedding model?
I'm not sure,
but if it works then I would say it's
good.
OK.
So #1 it's good because it really convert
the words to numbers,
it finish the work so that I will call it
a successful embedding model.
It didn't work.
The definition of embedding model it just
convert words to numbers.
It's it's, it is.
It is legit.
It is a legit embedding model.
And and and it does the work anything you
feel?
This model cannot handle.
It's a good model, not perfect.
Yeah, go ahead.
Professor. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Would like modern day swing be hard for
it at all.
You know, like there's new words that are,
like, made every so often.
I I know that it keeps getting trained
all the time,
Yeah, yeah.
but yeah wondering about that.
Yeah, that certainly is an issue, right?
So then how?
Where do you for example like you have?
Hello world, right?
So then you you may want to sometimes :)
kind of emoji and then where do you want
to put that one in?
So do you call it two or do you call it 3?
Do you call it four?
Maybe because like you map all the
numbers?
Into the real numbers, right?
So then you call it like 1345, right?
So then?
Sometimes.
You know,
how do you call negative numbers in here?
Like I understand,
there are some words are positive,
for example,
like you're you're doing that great is a
great presentation or something that
great.
It definitely has some positive sense or
meaning around it.
So that you like to say as a human being,
right.
I would like to assign a positive number
associated, but sometimes like really.
For example bad could be a really an
active number or even negative is an
active number, right?
I believe so.
Then you want to associate with some.
Negative numbers.
To to that number to that word.
But is this sometimes like?
Some words can be inactive in one sense.
And then the words can be positive in
another sense.
And how do you change the values?
Right.
So then this could be one drawback of
this,
this this kind of tokenizer approach.
Map all the English words to just one
dimension of of of string.
All the real numbers.
Right.
So then another approach will be called
code and call.
One hard approach.
So one hard approach is hello IS1000
world is 01000 and if you have another
word I have I can make another long and
then in that is the only one of those not
components is one. All the others are 0.
So.
That I can uniquely define.
All the words in that 01 vector where I
have only one component being one and all
the other components in that vector being
0.
And why #1?
It is.
It is a good embedding model because it
successfully convert words.
Two vectors and.
Then you do not have the issue that you
know we previous met.
So is it good?
And even better, embedding model.
What kind of issue do you think this one
hard approach may may may face?
What kind of issue we have if we we
choose to use this one hot?
Approach.
Any thought?
Why this this one HUD approach is not so
great.
Well, would it still be the same topic of?
Words can mean different things like.
Correct, correct.
So yeah, for example,
like you definitely see this example
Apple, right?
So then if you choose Apple so you choose
Apple as a fruit,
or do you choose apple as as a brand of
of of computers, right?
And there's another issue is.
If you guys may guess how many English
words do we have in the English language?
Obviously I do.
Probably 100 new every day.
I know how many unique I need to chat,
ChatGPT words in English.
OK.
So this is ChatGPT answer.
Words in current use IS170K to 200 two
100K and there are some obsolete and and
or historical words.
That's 45 K and then there are some
technical terms and jargons.
There are millions. OK,
let's say we have millions of words in
English, right?
So then we have millions of words in
English.
What kind of issue do we have?
We will have this vector.
You know you have a million numbers and
only one of those million numbers is 0.
All the other 1,000,000 -, 1 numbers.
Are are zero,
so only one number is 1 and all the
others are zeroes.
So we have not a million by million
matrix.
That matrix is representing entire
English language.
And and the the information in that
matrix is so little. We have only 1 / 1,
000,000 numbers are real information.
So that matrix is so big to to calculate
and so few information in.
So that's a really bad choose to create a
matrix.
So that matrix if you if we decide to
create a matrix almost really.
Kill the the computational.
Probability possibility, right?
So there's no way we can calculate such
big matrix and also right?
So then there's a lot of ways that it's
really not word to word is it's a phrase
to phrase right.
So then for example,
like you wouldn't consider.
You will consider for example,
like a long time no see as a as a phrase
of meeting and put them together.
Right. Or would love to.
You wanna put them together as as a sort
of a single word away instead of separ
together, because would love to.
You definitely wanna contact them
together for a long time. No. See,
so that even increase the number of of
that matrix make that matrix is even more
gigantic and so even harder to to to
accomplish. So that's why.
The the actual way.
To or convert words numbers is called
word to word.
Basically word to kind of approach so
that we will describe.
A word.
In actual word to whack,
you will have at least 1000 of numbers so
that we are trying to describe.
Different words into 1000 or more than
1000 aspects.
For example, for Apple, right?
So that we will say, OK,
Apple is 33% of chance, use it as a fruit.
Sometimes we use it as a smell.
Sometimes we use it as part of a chemical
related topics and sometimes if use Apple
as part of a cell phone. OK,
but for peer it's more more likely we use
it as a fruit,
then we use it as a part of.
Cell phone or or a banana.
It's more likely we use it as a smell or
fruit,
not necessarily chemical or cell phone.
So in this way we create a matrix to
describe each English word or word.
In so many aspects.
The good piece of it is we can certainly
see.
The the biggest or or big amount of cases.
That we use apple,
pear and banana is we consider them as
fruit. However,
we don't usually use Apple only to
represent one fruit.
We can also use it as one brand of cell
phone or one brand of a technology
company.
But also we can see rarely we use Apple.
Pear or or or banana as a part of a
chemical related topic.
So then we can compare the similarity of
different words and the differences of
different words.
So that's the way how we decide.
To code and code,
quantify those English words and then
basically that's the way we quantify or
or or digitalize different languages in
that way. OK.
So maybe you wanna guess.
Maybe if I give you how did you figure
out those ways.
Can can you guys give me one guess how we
figure out those weights?
I told you it is a word to whack model
but.
Any other any guess what is?
What is the base model this virtual VAC
based upon?
I think it's based on the you described,
the Internet and whatever comes up,
you train the model on it.
So honestly,
the way if you still remember the weights,
there's a one thing that we talk about,
a weights a lot of time that is through
the neural networks, OK.
So in neural networks,
we always talk about we need to determine
the ways we use a back propagation to
find a weight.
Those weights were actually coming from a
dedicated neural network.
So neural network is behind the scene as.
As a building break to.
Those weights associate with each English
words.
There are actually two ways to determine
those weights.
One way is for example.
Apple is a fruit as a sentence of input
to that neural network,
I will gather it out.
Fruit.
I will use Apple and ease to guess the
fruit as a word and also I will get rid
of Apple.
And use ease fruit to guess what is that
word apple.
So in those two ways I can,
I can eventually I run a large model.
I can I I increase accuracy through
different processes?
I can eventually have a weight associated
with Apple. I can have a weight,
a vector of weights associated with fruit,
so it's really.
The neural network behind the scene and
doing the magic for us.
And right now,
we're just used as is and use it as we
know sort of how those ways are generated.
But those ways is from neural network and
it's really thousand of numbers
representing a word.
Now after this step we successfully
convert each English word to a vector of
1000 of numbers.
From 1000 of aspects.
OK.
So this is what this embedding.
Step is doing.
OK.
The second step we have this input
embedding.
Now we have the positional encoding or
positional embedding,
and why we are doing that easy,
because in the real language,
for example in real language I can say
Eric eats pizza so that I like eating
pizza.
So then it's really natural to say Eric
is pizza.
However.
Pizza eats Eric.
Those two sentences,
they have the same 3 words, Eric.
Eats and pizza.
However,
the way how you organize those 3 words
give you totally opposite meaning.
Because Eric is really myself.
Enjoy my dinner. However, pizza is Eric.
It's a really total nightmare.
I.
I don't want to dream of so then this is
a really.
Different meanings.
So now it's showing you guys why the
position of a word in a sentence is so
important, right?
So then that's that's the why.
That's answers to why question why we
need to do that and another question is
how we gonna determine the positional
encoding so that we will be using the
sign?
And cosine function as you can imagine,
right?
So sine cosine function.
So this is the formula provided by.
All you need is is attention.
Attention is all you need.
Article and and this is a formula.
And I provide you a way how to calculate
this and for example using this CAD stat
map example, right?
So then sign 0 is a 0.
You know, if you recall this kind of,
I don't know was,
is it even high school math or just like?
Middle school math.
Like how?
How soon did you guys?
There are assign cosm function.
When did you guys learn cosm function?
Middle School high school.
Maybe freshman year.
Oh really?
Oh wow.
OK, freshman year.
You definitely need to learn this sign
cosine function.
Here's a formula. Here's a position.
Is it the first word? OK.
We're we're computer scientists, right?
So then we go from zero.
We never go from 1:00, right?
The first ever word.
Is in position zero. You plug in zero.
You do this calculation.
You you. This is a first word.
You do this calculation.
The second word you do this calculation.
So eventually, for Cat sat mat.
This is position zero position one,
position two, first word, second word,
third word.
You have their positional vector
calculated in this way.
Just plug in this sine cosine function.
You have those.
So next step is you have the original.
Embedding result. To simplify it,
I just call it 10.
Those kind of things,
those are not real numbers in in the real
model you have all the kind of.
Different numbers look like random
numbers,
but I'm just on the demo straight.
I just call them as output from embedding
and I use those two formula.
I calculate those positional vector and
I'm just adding them together.
It's really 1 + 0,
zero plus one and 1 + 0 and 0 + 1 where
zero plus this 8.
41 and stop we just per each position we
add them together.
OK.
So after this tab, So what do we have?
We successfully convert those words into
into numbers.
And then by adding those positional
vector the end of this step,
that vector has the original meaning of
the words,
and then it also consists of the position.
We usually use that word.
For example, we usually use.
Like we're using the OR and or a before
Anon.
So then this kind of information's
already embedded into this kind of vector,
OK.
Any question?
OK.
So after this step the the vector knows
sort of the meaning of those English
words,
and usually where do we pull those
English words in one given sentence?
So this kind of information we're telling
the model,
so now we're going to talk about this
attention.
So that's why you know that paper is
about, you know, attention's all you need.
It has to talk about attention, right?
So attention is the key concept from this
article and then I I gonna go slow and
then talk about what this attention mean,
OK.
So attention means it's sort of like.
It has three values,
a value called ka value called that is a
key value called.
A query is where you call queue.
And and value called value that's av.
Right.
So that it's really like you go to a
bookstore?
So you have a.
You have a query.
The query is you.
In your mind,
you're going to find a specific book that
you're interested in, right?
Something from your end,
but the from the bookstore's end.
The bookstore has so many books.
Each book on the shelf.
The position of that book is the key of
that book.
And if you can use one sentence to
summarize that book.
And your summary of that book is the
value of that book. OK,
you are going to find.
The book you're interested in,
if you're in a virtual library.
You gonna see what you like by through
all different positions on the shelf.
Eventually you like one.
You're gonna pick that key and read the
value of that book, OK?
Key is telling you the position of the
book and the value is the content of the
book and is from your perspective,
what are you interested in.
OK.
So this is really coming from two end one
end you can consider is a key,
another end is the location of the lock
and the lock hole is you gonna go and use
your key to open that lock.
That's the relationship between the key.
And the value OK.
So now we have this sentence.
So we need to go 1 by 1.
And to do one thing is called self
attention for the word.
Cat, what does that mean?
Is a cat sat mat?
This is only three word sentence.
You want to know.
Which word has the closest relationship
with cat?
OK.
So you will be doing is you do have the
embedding and then that's to pretend this
embedding.
In this way, just some whole numbers,
right?
So then they already passed the original
embedding already passed the positional
embedding.
So they has a lot of information here.
This is pretend.
This is a result of a previous two steps
and then you will be creating some
weights.
It's called the weights associated with.
Query the weights associated with the key
and the weights associated with value.
You will be doing.
This very calculation,
the embedding multiply the West of Q.
Embedding multiply the West of K by West
of V to calculate this kind of a matrix
multiplication. I will just skip.
You can definitely see the see the slides
and can see that.
So eventually.
I calculate this K from the word cat and
I have this one and one and two and 0.
So this is my K&V.
Kind of vector coming from.
Post this matrix multiplication,
you do the same thing for set and for mat.
OK.
You have this K&V,
so they define a formula like you
calculate is self attention.
So then you do this formula you you
eventually find this very vector.
So just go through this formula.
It's already like your Q.
Multiply each of those K's.
For example my.
I'm coming from my my first word cat.
I want to know what is the closest.
Relation which is a word with the closest
relationship with my word cat.
OK I will define the relation later,
but let me just go through this
calculation for a second.
You just bear with me.
My queue of cat is A2 of 0.
This is sort of.
Coming from a cat, I want to know.
What which,
which sort of a book that I am interested
in.
I have a 2A0 as my interest.
I gonna compare this two and 0 versus all
the keys which is a position of those
books.
I gonna do 2 of 0 multiply this one and
one I gonna do 2 of 0 multiply this one
and one I will do the two of 0 multiply
this 2.
And two.
I do this calculation.
I eventually have this numerator as two
and two and four as as a vector.
This first two this first number two
represent the relationship between my cat
and itself cat.
The second number two represent the
relationship between my first word,
cat versus my second.
Convert set this third word,
the third number four represent my the
relationship between my first word cat
and last word mat and the dimension of
this is as you can see it's a 2
dimensional vector.
So then as a sqrt 2.
So I have those 3 numbers,
I divide the square of 2.
I have this number.
As you know, the soft Max is.
Sort of normalize all the numbers.
That's why I do this.
A softmax function.
I have this.
So turns out.
Looking at the word cat.
Based upon the weight I'm providing,
I really want to know the location of the
cat.
So that's why I say based upon the
current wait you provided, the eventual,
eventually the output of this cat is 16%
of itself and 16% of these words SAT and
67% of these word of mouth. So then.
This very one-on-one has a lot of
meanings.
It has the original meaning of cat.
It has the original position of where we
should put the world cat and also it has
the relevant context of SAT and Matt.
OK.
So this is a key point in the end of this
step,
we already tell the model based upon the
given.
Weights the meaning of the original word.
The position of the original word.
And the relationship relationship of the
original word.
To the nearby word.
In that sentence or in that paragraph.
So we tell the model a lot of information
through this. The reason I said, OK,
we need to define that kind of code and
Co relationship later is you may need so
many.
Different relationships.
To tell model because in this sentence
you want to tell models a cat sat mat and
given that three matrix that we use in
the calculation,
we really tell the model that there is a
mat that cat is sitting on.
So that why your your talent model is.
Really Cat is sitting on a mat.
But in some of the ways you're really
trying to tell the model.
That the information that the cat love to
sit.
So maybe in some perspective set really
gonna have a high clinical high
relationship with them with the word cat.
So that's why we have this multi had self
attention calculation.
So this is really telling you that what?
This this new vector of Cal really has.
So it has the blends information.
And it has an original meaning.
It has the positional meaning and it has
the influence of sadden Matt and in this
way Matt has a higher influence.
Uncut.
And then if you know there's a mat and
usually model can guess,
either it's a cat or either it's a dog.
And it's multi hard attention is you're
doing this calculation in so many
different ways.
Why so many different ways?
Is some of those is focused on position
like what we had done like one minute
before.
And sometimes it's really about the
grammar, because we do have a set.
Over there and it's a past attends and
and and sometimes you really want to have
some feelings or semantics similarities
over there.
So.
So that's why you have so many different
aspects to analyze the same sentence.
You just want to provide all those
information to the model to the large
ranker model, right?
So that's why we have that multi had.
Attention calculation.
So for example,
one thing is semantic similarity,
another one is a position.
Patterns.
So those are just two halves and
definitely you can have multip has so
that going to provide a model all kind of
different information or you can think
this way Apple has a word.
It definitely has two meanings.
At least one is a fruit apple another one.
Is a brand Apple.
Ale for a tech company for the same
sentence. A word.
The relation between one word in the in
in to all the all the nearby words.
You must have different ways to
understand how that word is either
influencing other word or how that word
is being influenced by the other words.
So that's why a single had attention.
Which is a sort of a similar way of
calculating or of digitalize those
meanings of a word is not going to be
enough.
So that means you need to consider the
same sentence in different aspects and
you need to send or we need to send all
different aspects meetings to the model
and the model can decide in this kind of
in this very scenario which one gonna
play an important role.
And why we are choosing one word versus
the other in that various sentence?
OK.
So that's why we are doing this multihad
a good news of this multihad is you can
see they are analyzing the same sentence
or same program from different meanings
or different aspects or different
perspectives.
So then you can really parallelize
parallelize these multi head attention.
This is the only one thing that this is
complex calculation,
but you can parallelize it.
That means like if you build like 10,
000 GPUs and then you gonna run much
faster than one GPU in this in this very
step.
Give a pause any question.
So,
so far what we send to the model is we
send the model, right?
So then we send the model multi ways of
meanings of a word.
We send a model if we we build a model on
big data, right?
So then we send the models all possible
positions of one single word in different
sentences,
and then we gonna send that positional
vector through all the all the English
words.
So we we send the model a a dictionary,
right?
So all the possible positions of that
word in different sentences were all sent
to the models,
and those are we send those sample
sentences to the model that how we should
understand one word versus all the words
around.
So we we send from a single word person
of active.
We send from a grammar sentence structure
perspective.
We even also send the meanings how we
interpret those words in different
sentences.
We send all three kind of information.
To the model.
Right.
So now the next step is a typical neural
network. It's a feed forward.
The feed forward is redoing the neural
network is doing this by by by assigning
different weights and then eventually
you're going to do a neural network
training and that that's the number one
way.
The number two way that you'll be you'll
be calculating the the way you may.
Guess how we determine those weights and
biases in in this feedforward step?
You know, we know the magic word is back.
Propagation. OK,
so the all the stuff you learn from
neural network,
we're gonna repeat here in a larger
language models.
The large,
longer model from a model perspective is
not that hard.
The hard piece is we have a million of
sort of English words, jargons,
terms and then there's so many so much
data and then we just need to have a big
machine to run those models to able to
run those backup propaggation because
remember we have to pull.
Those numbers.
Into the RAM and the RAM.
Ram has to be big.
That GPU has to be powerful.
So then we had OK have those.
Uh, you know,
partial derivatives to calculate at the
same time.
That is the most difficult part in terms
of model.
As you can see we just sending so many,
so much,
so many different so much information
from different aspects.
The model that's really the the,
the feature creation step.
It sounds fancy, but is a typical.
Neural network use case.
It's not as fun, see.
The really engineer room work we're doing
from, you know,
opening eyes and they were able to pull
those information together and then and
then run a neural network to find out all
the proper weights.
And by the way,
if you guys may know what's what's
important for opening eye or actually
those weights,
that's why this call open call on call
open AI models are closed.
Close the source model because they will
never tell you the weights associated
those tokens.
By the way,
the tokens are sort of digitalized.
Or worse,
they're not going to tell you that.
Thus, their secret sauce.
But that's why those open AI models or
anthropic models or or Gemini models are
closed source models.
The only thing they closed is.
The weights.
In this feeds forward in this multi multi
head attention.
Uh.
In this positional encoding in the
encoder and also the similar stuff in
decoder,
they just keep those ways away from the
public.
The metal Lama model or deep sick model?
Those are the models that gonna tell you
the weights of whatever input output
you're having.
You're you're you're getting or you're
sending to the model.
So then they give you those weights.
So then you can use the weights to do
whatever you want,
or change and be use your way to build
another model instead of calling API so
that you by analyzing the.
In theory you can, you can.
You can, you know,
you can change the ways by fine tune the
ways by adding your specific data so that
the weights is there is for you to change
and this is really give you the first
version of the draft and then you can add
your own local.
Data to make the best model fit your
needs,
and then that initial weights they
already provided to handle all the
language daily work.
And that's why they are called open
source models.
OK.
It's really neural network.
They don't have to give you all the
details.
They just give you the weights. You, you,
you have all the information.
OK so.
These really are the three steps 3-4
steps in the encoder.
Right now,
we're sort of already send those
information to the decoder.
So it's thinking this way if we are doing
a translation in English, the cat sat mat,
right?
So that we already have the meanings of
those 3 English words,
we we we know we digitalize them in two
numbers.
We plus.
Us.
Where the cat as the word should be,
where the sad as the word should be,
where the mad as the word should be.
We add that information to that vector
and then we also add another vector of
how we should understand this in this
this this sentence from.
A grammar perspective or how we should
understand this sentence from a cat or
animal perspective or different
perspective. We add those information.
To that sentence we we package all the
information together as a single.
Go backter and that vector we're gonna
send to the decoder where decoder is.
A universe of a foreign language, right?
So then we go from English sets,
cat sat mat.
Now we need to find a corresponding words
from a different language and eventually
translate this set cat sat mat.
Into the sentence in a foreign language,
#1.
Match the meaning of each word.
Cat sat mat matches the position or
position means like in in proper position
in the foreign language and also match
the the ways how we understand that
English sentence in the perspectives in
the in the attention the multi head
attention.
Right.
So then that's we need to have all three
factors check in the decoder and that is
actually what we're going to do.
So in the decoder, the entire step.
So what we to do is.
So we do have.
We still have the multi head attention.
We have another thing called masked multi
head attention.
Those are two, three,
two different things.
The multi head attention is going to do.
I gonna go from each English word cat sat
mat as my query I'm looking for.
A appropriate.
Foreign word for cat.
That means my cat word in English is
going to be my.
And my position of that foreign word is
going to be my key and the meaning of
that foreign word is going to be the
value I need to find a corresponding
foreign word for cat.
I need to find a corresponding foreign
word for.
Sat.
I need to find a corresponding foreign
word.
For matte O,
that is the multihad attention is doing
in the decoder what masks of Multihat
detention is doing is.
I will go from the beginning without
knowing.
Cat sat and mad,
knowing I have a corresponding word for
cat knowing I have a corresponding word
for set knowing there is a corresponding
word for mat I gonna pass.
A special token to the model is called
the beginning of the sentence or the
start. I gonna start sentence?
You need to tell me what is the first
word in English that's going to be the
cat in different language.
For example, if.
Chinese.
And then you gonna tell me the
corresponding word for cat?
However, if this is in Japanese,
you're gonna tell me. Umm,
you're gonna tell me the corresponding
word for set?
Because they have different languages
have a different grammar.
So then I gotta start,
and then you gonna give me the Chris the
the the correct corporate word as the
first word of the sentence. So that's why.
That's how this must multi head attention
is working.
I gotta go from start to every single
word, so I'm gonna do this one.
So this.
I know I have cat sat.
Madison,
I found those 3 corresponding words for
cat right.
So then I wanna choose this one.
I do not know how fluent you guys are in
in Chinese.
Just bear with me.
This word means cat. OK,
this word means cat,
and this word means sat. And this word,
this character means mad.
I know for for cat I need to choose this
one and the model chose this one.
Just pretend all the calculations have to
be done from behind.
Seeing so,
I will be choosing this cat character in
Chinese.
So then I'm passing the model start.
The model should return this character
cat.
And then I will send start and cat in the
masked attention step to the model and
the model gonna tell me the set by
through this attention analysis.
So then I just go from start and cat.
And we are hoping the model gonna give me
set and then I send a start cat and set.
I'm hoping the model gonna give me the
mat.
The hoping piece is actually the purpose
of large language model.
The large language model is we're giving
so many data to the model and the model
gonna predict the next word,
knowing whatever happened before I tell
the model I already have a start and cat.
Through your data I send you to train
your model.
You should send me set but you didn't.
That means my weights are not accurate.
So then I need to train the model again
for you to send me the set and eventually
after runs and runs of training you gonna
send me set you and after I send you cat
and set you need to send me.
Matt, that is really how this.
Work how this decoder is working?
OK.
I.
I I talk about a lot of sad and mad.
I mean any questions for now?
Are you?
Are you still?
Are you still there?
Yes.
OK so.
Yeah.
Yep.
Just just a lot to take in.
Yeah, I understood. I understood.
Yeah, I agree.
Yeah, I understood.
So this is how it works in the larger
language model.
OK so.
The the difficult part of teaching large
ranking model is is this.
It's just so hard to train a model in
front of you guys.
If you see how I train a model,
it'll be much easier to see this.
But you know, you just send this.
Just remember the larger model the the
goal of this larger model is to predict
the next word.
Giving all the previous words.
Umm, so that's the that's the goal.
And then and then eventually by running
different runs of neural network,
the weights are training,
are trained to give you the correct and
accurate.
Accurate based upon the historical
patterns that a model has seen.
The information to the model is actually
the matrix that the vector of,
meaning the vector of position and the
vector of grammar,
a vector of a sentiment,
a vector of different act backs that you
would expect from different sentences,
and those are the information the model
will learn.
From and eventually give you the
corresponding words after the input words
you give to the model.
Right, so that is essential.
How the larger one model,
how the large language models are working?
So then that's why this encoder is not
usually necessary.
Because.
In in ChatGPT,
we usually ask a question that's called a
prompt.
The prompt is actually going to be the
input of, and then the and and.
We're not usually ask.
You know,
sometimes we ask the ChatGPT to translate.
But sometimes we just ask some question
in English and we're expecting the answer
in English.
Or you ask the question in different
languages.
You're expecting the answer from that
very single language.
And there is no translation is involved.
So then the the ChatGPT will be using the
inputs as the starting piece,
just like this your, your your timing,
you're timing the prompt as cat.
And the model received the cat as an
input.
In the decoder that the model will will
be guessing what you mean by cat and it
will run.
You will check different patterns from
the model from the data you train the
model and then they then the the large
model model who could see or could detect
similar patterns.
It has received before,
so then you go continue.
From the cat word you input as a prompt
and then the model will predict cat.
Sat and Matt.
So that's going to be the output from the
model so that all the questions or the
prompt that we provided to the ChatGPT
and ChatGPT will consider that the
starting point and we next work based
upon it.
So that is how the ChatGPT or GPT model
is working. So that's why.
The GPD model does not really need
encoder because the encoder piece entire
encoder pieces is redundant for the GPD
model in terms of communication purposes.
It just doesn't need it.
But if you are really talking about
translation,
it definitely needs that kind of encoder.
So that's why there are still some
encoder decoder kind of.
Structured model still available.
Umm.
Does that's why?
And then why the Lem are so bad at
arithmetic? As you can see,
we're sending the meetings to the model.
We're sending the positions to the model.
We're sending how to interpret a sentence
to the model.
Math formula.
The calculation.
It does not have a fixed pattern,
for example 1 + 2,
you know 1 + 2 is 2 + 1 and and you know
that.
You you change your position doesn't
really mean anything in mathematics.
But the the,
the the large random model actually
depend on the position to do this.
This next word prediction kind of thing.
1 + 2 you say.
1 + 2 it may sometimes predict the next
corrector should be equals.
But if one but it only learns 2 + 1,
not 1 + 2,
it cannot give you the answer 3 because
this is because large number is really a
pattern recognition kind of tool instead
of like calculation tool.
1 + 2 does not have any meaning in terms
of grammar in terms of sentence,
in terms of anything.
So then those are those are not,
those are not in in terms of a language.
So so is so bad at arithmetic.
The Y the large number is so great at
coding language because the coding
language compared to arithmetic or
mathematics is still a language,
it can still learn some patterns around
those. Those programming codes or scripts.
So they can still see some clear patterns
around it.
So that's why the large language model
can handle coding, but not mathematics.
Was not being sad and why mathematics can
do some reasoning and and math proof.
The reason is.
In that high end mathematics,
we're now we're not using those kind of
calculation like 1 + 2 is always like
logic.
Versus logic that kind of approves is a
really reasoning kind of process that
piece the large language model can learn
a bit, but usually it it be wrong.
So then so then.
So that's why usually the large number
models are so bad at arithmetic,
because the model is not designed to
solve arithmetic problems. OK,
the models are designed to identify the
patterns in human languages,
and then we design entire process to
provide as much inform.
As possible for the model to identify the
patterns.
But we did not provide as much
information as possible to for the model
to do the calculation.
So that's why it's not so great.
So you shouldn't, yeah, any question.
Good.
Oh, Ben,
I I I think you have some background
noise.
I do not know if this is only me or or
other folks here the same.
Are.
Oh gosh.
I can't really hear him either.
OK.
Are you saying that is there any?
Can you hear me better now?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, much better.
Right, sorry. My microphone was messed up.
Oh, it's OK. I mean, yeah.
So my question was like,
is are all of the large language models
bad at this or is like certain ones
better than other like Gemini versus
ChatGPT versus other ones or since they
all have similar like base,
are they all bad?
Sure.
To answer that question at an early stage.
All the large ranged models are so bad
arithmetic because they're based upon the
same paper they're based upon the same
same code and code, same structure.
So they can choose whether or not to have
the encoder.
They can choose.
You know only use decoder but the same
paper,
so that's why all the models are not so
bad and arithmetic.
The reason you have seen that some models
are getting better in arithmetic.
Just because there's one thing called
agentic approach,
the agentic approach is that they can
just do some agent to understand your
request so that they can call the
corresponding function to help you with
that purpose. For example, like.
If you tell me you're going to do some
math.
And then do some arithmetic and you're
going to do some calculation.
I understand your purpose. You know,
from a from a language model perspective,
I can.
I can do my way is I gonna call a
calculator and then use.
Later,
to do to to to calculate the number you
want to calculate and that result will be
accurate.
So that's the way that you know,
there's agentic approach is quite a a
popular right now.
So then just calling different functions
to do to fulfill different purposes.
So from a large language model
perspective,
it's always going to be bad at arithmetic,
but they have a way to fix it.
I hope I answered your question, Ben.
Thank you.
Yeah, yeah.
So it's it's going to be a lot of fun. OK,
the homework I got to do give to you that
you guys reading is there is one paper.
From Harvard and in that paper,
they gonna actually.
Give you all the calls that you can train
your own.
Large language model which is really cool.
Let me show you that paper.
The issue of that paper is.
It it just the paper is pretty old,
is five years old, so then.
Some of the code,
some of the packages you use.
Already already old?
So let me share my screen so that you
know what I mean.
Can you guys see my screen?
Yes.
So the yes.
So this is the paper from Harvard
University, right?
So then this paper is so popular just
because.
Number one,
it give you all the codes here.
If I click here there is a GitHub they
created this one three years ago.
So I'm gonna give you all the codes and
then in fact if you click this one this
Jupiter notebook.
You can actually see.
All the calls behind the scene.
So technically.
If you wanna,
if you wanna train a vanilla.
Cheaper, smaller,
large language model yourself.
You can basically follow all the steps
here.
And eventually,
you're gonna have your own model.
If you have a good enough hardware right.
So then,
eventually you're gonna do the
calculation.
Eventually you're gonna do the
translation for you,
like German to English.
You will have your own model.
You can train it based upon this paper
and they give you the code.
The issue is the codes are old,
three years old, three years old.
So the homework is I will send you the
paper.
Try your best to rerun this code to
modify those codes to make it your own
tool in case you want to train your own
large language model.
And this is all the secret sauce behind
the scene.
And you can definitely create something
on your own and that'll be fun, you know.
Do as much as you can with your group and
and this is something that you can
definitely learn in addition to tell
people how the large language model works,
and then you can tell them, hey,
you know what?
I can even train a smaller model myself.
So that's going to be the homework, OK?
You gonna be fun and enjoyed it and
that's going to be our class.
Thank you for attending and next week's
gonna be last class.
I'm teaching and the next one is going to
be you guys teaching me something.
Thanks professor.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you.
Yep, Yep,
I'll share with with you guys the paper
Thank you.
Thanks.
and enjoy it.
Gonna be fun.